- German bandits at two o'clock.
- Increase throttle. Power dive.
Spell it right, Rafe.
"Rudder" is spelled with 2 "d"s.
- Thanks, wingman.
- Yeah, sure.
Whoa, bandits.
- Crack shootin', Danny.
- Crack shootin', Rafe.
- Land of the free.
- Home of the brave.
Great flyin', Dad.
Come on.
I'm gonna teach you how to fly.
- I get the front.
- No, you take the back.
I'm bigger, and I
should be in front.
I'm older, and I'm teachin', so no.
- Wow. It's like we're really flying.
- Yeah, I did it lots of times.
Come on, you man the guns.
I'll give her some throttle.
We gotta get those
dirty German bandits.
Gosh!
- Hang on.
- Make it stop, Rafe.
I've seen my dad do this
lots of times. Don't worry.
Rafe.
My gosh. We're flying.
We're flying.
My dad's gonna kill me.
Come on.
Yes!
- We flew.
- We flew. Yes. I'm a pilot.
- I know.
- Yeah!
We flew.
- You no-account boy.
- Daddy.
I done told you, you spend time playing
with this stupid boy can't read,
you ain't never goin'
to amount to nothin'.
He ain't stupid, Daddy.
Daddy.
Come on.
Get on back home. Now.
Get on up. You got work to do.
Come on. Come on, get on home.
You let him alone.
Daddy, no.
I will bust you open,
you dirty German.
What'd you call me?
I fought the Germans in France.
And I fought 'em in the trenches.
And I pray to God no one ever
has to see the things that I saw.
You're my best friend.
Daddy, wait.
Adolf Hitler builds the
German military machine ...
and drags all of Europe into war.
But even while France falls to Hitler,
America still refuses to join the fighting.
- Where's McCawley and Walker?
- Still training, sir.
All right, Danny. Let's show 'em how to fly.
We're gonna play chicken. You ready?
This ain't the farm,
these ain't crop dusters.
- I'm not playing chicken with you.
- Don't be a baby.
- I'm not doing it, Rafe.
- I'm coming right at you.
You can turn, or you can hit me.
- What the ...?
- Oh, boy.
Why you always bustin' my ass,
Rafe? Which way you goin'?
I guess I'll go right.
No, uh, left. I'll go left.
- OK, we're goin' left, right?
- Right. Right?
Right we're goin' right,
or right we're goin' left?
Well, now you got me all mixed up.
I don't know. Make up your mind.
God, Rafe, we're going right.
Righty-tighty!
Those are some smooth aces.
Did you say something? Cos let me
tell ya, those farm boys are grounded.
Yes, sir, an entirely unacceptable
use of military aircraft, sir.
- Get my hat.
- Yes, sir.
Get those hedge-hoppers
in Doolittle's office.
After two years of training,
you believe that a $45,000 airplane
is there for your amusement?
No, sir. I was just trying
to keep my edge, Major.
When you did the outside loop last week,
what was that? Honing your skills?
That's not training, McCawley.
That's a stunt.
And I personally consider it
to be reckless and irresponsible.
Major.
You're famous for being the first
man in the world to do it.
- Don't get cute with me, son.
- No, sir, I don't mean to be disrespectful.
I just think that ...
Well, I ... It is reckless and irresponsible
if you're just doing it to be a show-off.
But I was doing it to try to inspire the men,
sir, in the way that you've inspired me.
I believe the French
even have a word for that,
when the men get together to honour
their leaders. They call it an homage, sir.
- A what?
- An homage, sir.
That's bullshit, McCawley.
But it's very, very good bullshit.
Thank you, sir.
McCawley, you remind me
of myself 15 years ago.
Which is why we need
to discuss this.
Have a seat, son.
The British have accepted you
into the Eagle Squadron.
You're on your way to England tomorrow,
if you still want to go.
Just a few British pilots are all that stand
between Hitler and total victory in Europe.
- They'll need all the help they can get.
- Yes, sir. Well, I'm on my way.
Just for the record, I'm supposed
to ask you to reconsider.
Sir?
Sooner or later we're gonna be in
this war whether we like it or not.
And I'm gonna need all of my best pilots.
So it's my duty to ask you to stay.
Major, what would you do?
If it was me ...
I'd go.
Get out. Am I going
bald right back here?
Man, I am one good-lookin'
son of a bitch.
Don't you ever die.
Die. That's exactly the concept
you gotta work tonight.
You put a drop of this clove oil
under your eyes,
and you let 'em sting and well up.
You get your nurse alone,
take a breath,
let her see your eyes glisten, and say,
"Baby, they're training me for war,
and I don't know what'll happen,
but if I die tomorrow,
I want to know ...
that we lived all we could tonight."
Come on, guys.
We got nurses waitin'.
Come on, before the
rest of his hair falls out.
- How could you do this?
- Well, Doolittle assigned me.
He wanted me to get
some real combat training in.
Well, guess what.
It's not training over there.
It's war. Where the losers die,
and there aren't any winners,
just guys who turn into
broken-down wrecks like my father.
I understand that, Danny.
But I feel like I got a duty to go.
Don't preach to me about duty, dammit.
I wear the same uniform you do.
Now, if trouble wants me,
I'm ready for it.
- But why go looking for it?
- God, Danny, come on.
I'm gonna be 25.
I might as well be an old man.
They're gonna have me
bein' a flight instructor.
I don't wanna teach loops and barrel
rolls. I wanna be a combat fighter.
Hey, come on. The nurses
can't dance by themselves.
Let's go.
If the call of duty means seeing 150
men in their underwear every day,
we are here to serve.
I can't believe it.
Saturday night in New York City.
Do you know what they're doing
where I come from? Nothing.
- Cow-tipping.
- That's why you joined the navy, hon.
To get out of that dusty
little town and see the world.
May I remind you, Barbara,
we're navy nurses, not tourists.
I joined to do my patriotic duty
and to meet guys.
Me too.
- We're gonna have so much fun.
- Tell them the story, Evelyn.
What?
Come on. Tell us.
It's such a long story.
We got time.
I saw it happen.
Well, it was about four weeks ago.
What do you think is better?
All in the one cheek,
or spreading them out?
OK.
Fusco, Anthony.
You all right, buddy?
Sweetie, do you really
have to do this?
I'm not gonna get yellow fever
in my barracks.
No? If you'd rather,
she can do it.
Just gimme a minute.
Honey, the government
says stick 'em, we stick 'em.
Hey, Red, you all right?
Eye exam number four?
Listen, Doc, I have passed
a dozen medical checks.
- You write that, they won't let me fly.
- Sorry, son.
I'm gonna fail.
They're gonna take my wings away.
No, they won't. Just relax.
Read the bottom line, please.
Keep practisin' the bottom line.
And don't worry. I'm right behind you.
J-L-M-K-P-O ...
Thank you.
Next.
Ma'am.
J-L-M-K-P-O-E-T-X.
- Eyes like an eagle, ma'am.
- Slow down, flyboy.
And, instead of the bottom,
read the very top. Both eyes.
Yeah.
C ... Sorry, J.
C.
W.
Q.
Read the bottom line again, please.
But read it right to left,
and every other letter.
E.
X.
- X-E.
X-E, ma'am.
Ma'am, I know how this looks.
I'm sorry, Lieutenant, I really am.
But army and navy requires 20/20 vision.
Oh, I ... It's not a problem
with my eyes. I mean, I can see.
I can hit a running rabbit with a $3 pistol.
I got a problem with letters, that's all.
Maybe after some schooling you could
come back and take the test again.
No, I had schooling. The teachers
just never knew what to make of it.
It's just letters. I mix 'em
up sometimes. That's all.
I just get 'em backward sometimes.
Look here. My math and spatial reasoning
and my verbal scores are all excellent.
But you barely passed
the written exam.
Yeah, but he did pass it.
So, is it my turn now?
- No, you'll wait your turn.
- Yes, ma'am.
Ma'am, I'm never gonna
be an English teacher.
But I know why I'm here.
To be a pilot.
And you don't dogfight with manuals.
You don't fly with gauges.
It's all about feeling and speed and lettin'
that plane become like a part of your body.
And that manual says that a guy who's
a slow reader can't be a good pilot.
That file says
I'm the best pilot in this room.
Ma'am, please, don't take my wings.
Well, I felt so bad.
Evelyn, rotate to station three.
I had no choice. I passed him.
So, then this
cocky pilot comes back.
- Say, fella, are you enlisted?
- Yeah.
"Yeah"? Boy,
you're talking to an officer.
Yes, sir. Sorry, sir.
- Give me that file.
- Yes, sir.
- Parade rest.
- Ma'am, I didn't get a chance to thank you.
- Drop your skivvies.
Oh, OK.
- Just like this?
- That's fine.
He did have a very cute butt.
I know you didn't have to pass me,
and you did.
And I just ... I didn't think
you'd understand, and you did.
You know, you still
haven't said "Thank you."
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
Why'd you do it?
I mean, I'm just curious.
- You're like my hero now.
- Actually, my father was a pilot.
And I've seen first-hand what happens
when a pilot loses his wings.
You know what?
Your father's my hero, then, too.
In fact, as an officer,
I think it'd be my duty ...
to take my new hero's
daughter out tonight just to ...
- Gosh, did I poke too deep?
- I think you hit the bone there.
You are so mean.
What? So is there any chance
that you might, kind of, sort of,
you know, like me, or ...?
How did you guess?
They never taught us
how to deal with this feeling.
What feeling?
Well, it's kind of like this.
Well, he was getting fresh,
so I poked him again.
All right, Romeo.
I want to get this over with.
Hold on a second.
Miss, I really, really lick you.
What did he mean?
Like you.
I didn't mean to say that.
And I just ...
I just want to ask you, please,
if I can donate dinner.
He started to act very strange.
Or, well, buy you dinner.
This isn't your chart.
No. That's the ...
this fellow over here's.
- I think he left.
- Have you already had this shot?
Yeah, well, once already.
Well, I wanted ...
I mean, can I ask you out?
No!
And he just went wham!
What'd you do to him?
Poor guy.
My God. Are you OK?
Yeah. I'm fine. I feel great.
This is just standard
precautionary thing.
Look, I got some genuine
French champagne from France.
I thought, you know,
maybe we could celebrate.
Celebrate what?
I don't know.
You being my hero, for one.
OK. Why not?
I wanted to thank you.
And I just wanted to put your
mind at ease about passing me,
because I really do think
you did this country a service.
I am a great flier.
And if you have a fault,
which you obviously don't,
it's modesty.
No. If I have a fault it's candour.
You are just so ...
Cork just got away from me.
God, it hurts.
It hurts something fierce.
I'm sorry.
It's bleeding.
- Lay still.
- I ruined everything. It hurts.
- It's cold.
- It'll stop the bleeding.
- I can't breathe.
- Lay still.
You are so beautiful it hurts.
- It's your nose that hurts.
- No. I think it's my heart.
And then I kissed him.
Evelyn. That's the most
romantic story I ever heard.
It's been the most romantic
four weeks and two days of my life.
I'm so jealous.
- Hello, Lieutenant. It's good to see you.
- You, too, Lieutenant.
Pick a hand.
It's beautiful.
What's in your other hand?
Mine.
Well, it took me six hours
to fold these.
I want you to meet my friends.
Rafe, this is Martha,
Barbara, Sandra ...
- Hi. I'm Betty.
- Hi.
Would you happen
to have any friends?
Take your pick.
Hi.
We ever get in this war
and somethin' happens to me,
I can't tell you how good
it makes me feel to know ...
that someone as sweet as you will be
there to nurse me back to health.
- Good, but we're not in the war yet.
- OK. That was a bad line.
Hi.
I'm Red.
Red ...
Strange.
- Your last name's Strange?
- She's all yours, soldier.
No. It's Winkle.
Red is such a ladies' man.
- Do you always stutter?
- No. Only when I'm ...
She's totally buying it.
- Nervous?
- Yeah.
Why can't I get
something like that?
Hello.
Hi.
Danny seems kind of shy
around the girls.
It's not that he's shy. He's just a
little unsure of himself, you know.
His old man used to run him down a lot.
Get him in a plane, he's sure of himself.
He's like my brother. He's like
my best friend. He's my right hand.
Which at the moment
is a long way south of my waist.
I'm sorry.
- I guess I lost a little altitude.
- Yeah, I guess you did.
Excuse me.
You and me, we got to talk.
So, the rumour is the navy's
shipping us to Pearl Harbor.
Well, won't be so bad.
It's about as far from
the fighting as you can get.
You'll get a suntan.
So maybe the army'll
post you guys there, too.
You are a super special woman.
And, well ...
Well, they're training me
to be a big bad warrior, and ...
So, I mean, you never know
what might happen tomorrow, or ...
or any day after that, you know?
So ...
God, we need to make
tonight super-special.
Why are you crying?
I guess it's the thought that I
might not ever get to see you again.
Dry your eyes, toots.
Tonight, you're mine.
I don't want to be with a crowd tonight.
I just want to be alone with you.
Well, how does New York Harbor
by moonlight sound?
- Are you gonna be a bad influence?
- Of course I'm a bad influence.
Let's see if we can commandeer this vessel
cos we're officers of the US Government.
Not for long, we won't be.
One day, we'll take a trip
on a boat like that.
Would you like that?
We'll be dressing for cocktails
and walk into the grand salon.
No one's talking about war.
They're just dancing to Cole Porter.
- I'll have to get a tux.
- Yeah.
Come on. There you go.
All aboard.
- You're out of your mind.
- Yeah. Careful now. Here, sit down.
Now, let's see here.
There we go.
See, this is as close as
I could get you to your ship.
So, at least I tried, right?
Actually, you know what?
This is better.
Yeah, it is.
God, you're pretty.
What's gonna become
of us all, Rafe?
Well, the future's not
exactly in our hands, is it?
No. I guess you're right.
- My God. Are you all right?
- Yeah, are you?
That was not part of the date.
- Watch your step.
- Thank you.
- Evelyn!
- Guys, come up. Come on up.
Come up. We're in 321.
There's something I gotta tell you.
You got no secrets from me, Lieutenant.
I've seen your medical chart.
This can't be good,
or it wouldn't be so hard to say.
Yep.
- I gotta go away.
- We're all going away.
Yeah.
But I'm going to the war, tomorrow.
I'm flying with the Eagle Squadron.
It's an outfit the British
started for American pilots.
I don't understand.
You're in the US army.
How could they order you to go?
They didn't order me.
I volunteered.
But I passed you.
I let you through.
And now you volunteer for the
most dangerous place you could go?
It's not your responsibility,
not your choice.
Flying's the only thing
I ever wanted to do.
I mean, everything in my life
has led me up to this point.
Meeting you.
I love you.
I love you so much.
Let's go inside.
All right. Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
I can't do this. This just ...
It's not right. I'm sorry. I just ...
See, I can't do this.
I mean, I can. I want to.
I'm not trying to be noble,
you know.
Or not saying I know what would happen
or just ... I need to stop talking.
I just don't want ... I just don't
want it to be like everybody else.
I don't want you to have anything
about tonight that you regret.
I mean, it's been the most
incredible night of my life,
and I don't want to ruin that.
You couldn't ruin it.
If I had one more night to live,
I'd want to spend it with you.
See, that's what
I want to come home to.
That's what I want to have
to think about and dream about.
I want to know that the best part
of my life is still ahead of me.
Look.
Don't ...
Could you not come see me off?
Because saying goodbye
to you once is hard enough.
Here.
Take this.
Why?
You think it looks good on me?
I will come back.
I thought you said
you told her not to come.
Yeah, I did.
- Why are you looking for her, then?
- It's my test.
If I tell her not to come,
and she comes anyway ...
then I know she loves me.
All aboard. Track 57.
If anything happens to me,
I want you to be the one
to tell her. All right?
You just make sure and come back
for the both of us, all right?
OK.
- See you when I get back.
- Yeah.
Good hunting, Rafe.
Evelyn.
She loves me.
The German Luftwaffe relentlessly
bombards downtown London,
while Churchill's Royal Air Force
is in a deadly struggle ...
to maintain control
of the British skies.
This is a real mess.
Lieutenant McCawley
reporting for duty, sir.
Good. We'll get you
settled into your quarters,
and then introduce you
to the crate you'll be flying.
Yes, sir. Well, if y'all
are patching up bullet holes here ...
maybe we ought to skip housekeeping
and get me in an airplane.
Two didn't come back, sir.
We counted only 11.
Are all Yanks as anxious as you to
get themselves killed, Pilot Officer?
Not anxious to die, sir.
Just anxious to matter.
This is yours.
Good chap.
Didn't die till he'd landed
and shut down his engine.
Please be seated, gentlemen.
I'm afraid I'm in a bad mood.
Churchill and Stalin
are asking me what I'm asking you.
How long is America going to pretend
the world is not at war?
We've increased food and oil shipments,
Mr. President, and as far as I know ...
What they really need are tanks, planes,
bullets, bombs, and men to fight.
But our people think Hitler and
his Nazi thugs are Europe's problem.
We have to do more.
Send the Brits and Russians more of
our ships and anti-aircraft weapons.
- And keep cannibalising the Pacific Fleet?
- What choice do we have?
We're building refrigerators
while our enemies build bombs.
This is so exciting.
You know there's about
100 ships on Pearl.
How many sailors per ship?
It depends. More on a battleship
than a sub. But say, on average 2,000.
Then there's the fliers,
the marines, base personnel.
- I'm still working on the sailors.
- Girls, I think the odds are in your favour.
Yeah, like 4,000 to one.
It's paradise.
See you on the beach, boys.
We're in Hawaii.
You're not supposed to paint titties
on the side of my airplanes.
- And if you do, don't make 'em lopsided.
- They were lopsided, Earl.
Look, it says right here:
"Never ride waves amongst
rocks or submerged pilings."
See, it says you shouldn't do that.
How do you know they're
submerged if they're submerged?
Gooz, what in the hell
are you doing?
Just trying to fix
this surfboard thing.
He keeps taking chunks off
his nose on the rocks.
On my day off, I'm working
on my new invention ―
the Gooz Cruise Fin.
I'm gonna be a rich fella. Every surfboard
in the nation's gonna need one.
Yeah? Well,
you're gonna need a broom.
Check out these new recruits.
- Hi.
- Aloha.
Y'all pilots?
We're working on it.
It's a lot of switches and stuff.
- Pride of the Pacific.
- Who are you?
Terrors of the skies.
Welcome, ladies.
Hi.
I have to deal with toasty sunburnt
rump before I can show you around.
Dear Evelyn.
It's different than I thought
it would be here.
It's cold ―
so cold it goes deep
into your bones.
There is one place
I can go to find warmth.
That is to think of you.
I just wish I could be
back there with you.
It's not easy making friends.
Two days ago, I had a beer
with a couple of the RAF pilots.
Yesterday,
both of them got killed.
Dear Rafe.
I miss you so much.
It's so strange to be
half a world away from you.
I'm right on his tail.
Got one.
Every night I look
at the sunset ...
and try to draw the last ounce
of heat from its long day ...
and send it from my heart to yours.
Family?
Girl, sir.
The girl.
A lot of people frown on the Yanks
for not being in this war yet.
I'd just like to say,
if there are many more
back home like you,
God help anyone who goes
to war with America.
Ten hut!
Attention on deck.
Admiral Kimmel, Commander-in-Chief,
Pacific Fleet, on deck.
- Sharp presentation, Captain.
- Thank you, Admiral Kimmel.
For four months now Washington's
been blowing pink smoke ...
about the threat from Japan.
Could make us lose our fighting edge.
I'm determined not to let that happen.
With your permission, Captain.
Admiral, urgent, from Washington.
I'm supposed to keep this fleet
battle-ready to take on the Japanese,
cover half the damn globe.
Now they want me to transfer
another 12 destroyers to the Atlantic.
- Don't they know what we're facing here?
- They feel Europe is the greater danger.
I'm assuming these risk
assessments include Hawaii.
Pearl Harbor is too shallow
for an aerial torpedo attack.
We're surrounded by sub nets.
All we need worry about is sabotage,
so we bunched our planes together
to make them easier to protect.
Distance is our ally, Admiral.
You analysts got it
all figured out, don't you?
The smart enemy hits you
exactly where you think you're safe.
Incoming.
I fixed the hydraulics and electrics, sir,
but the oil hoses still need attention.
- Just crank it, Ian.
- God speed you, sir.
Red section, take the bombers.
Blue section, look out for the fighters.
Bombers dead ahead. Let's drop
in and give 'em a reception.
Red Two, follow my lead, high side.
Go right at the lead bomber.
Following you, Red One.
Good hit. Good hit.
Red One, coming around,
reset for the kill.
I have the middle bomber.
Hammer down.
We got him. Nice shot, Red Two.
I got two MEs dead ahead.
I'm on him. I'm on his tail.
Hammer down.
I got one of them.
I got another one.
Red One, you got fighters
all over your tail.
I'm under fire. I'm taking fire.
Red One, get out of there.
Pull up. Pull up.
I got an oil leak.
Can't see a damn thing.
I can't bail.
My canopy's stuck. I can't bail out.
He's on my tail, Red Two.
I'm hit. I'm hit.
Mayday! Mayday!
My God.
- I'm no good at church.
- What do you mean, sweetie?
When I'm up there getting
my slate wiped clean,
- I'm thinking how to dirty it up again.
- Wow, this from a virgin.
I gotta inventory supplies.
Kill me now.
Could you be any more boring?
Don't bother.
Sunday, she writes Rafe ―
ten pages instead of the usual five.
Gosh, I wish I was in love.
Hey, sweetheart.
She hates me.
- Good to see you, Red.
- Good to see you, too, Betty.
You wanna come for a ride?
Come on.
Yeah, I'll be your chauffeur.
- That-a-boy. Be a mad dog.
- You hit pretty hard, for a cook.
- All right, Walker, who you got?
- I'll take the cook.
Why? You don't like money?
Come on. Get out there now.
- I'll put five on it.
- Done.
Against a mechanic?
That guy craps rivets.
How's it feel up from the engine room?
Sunlight botherin' you?
Man, he's getting all busted up.
Move. Move.
Come here. We gotta talk.
Get down here.
He can't hurt us.
He can hurt us.
- He cut us. We bleeding.
- Bleeding?
That's a scratch. See this? This
is the hard-earned greenbacks ...
of every pot-scrubbin'
chop in this fleet.
Now if we don't win, Teeny here
has to find another battleship.
I'm not going back to the
Arizona empty-handed.
Don't worry about the money.
I'll send that smug engine-fixin' snipe
back below decks where he belong.
We the man.
He slapped your momma.
Be a son of a bitch.
Look at this. All right, Dorie.
That's enough. That's enough.
- Where's my money?
- Nah, fight's rigged.
We're rich.
- How'd you get this?
- Boxing.
- Did you win?
- Yes, ma'am.
What do you get for winning?
Respect.
So, why do you have to fight
with your fists to get respect?
I left my momma in Texas and
joined the navy to see the world,
become a man.
They made me a cook.
Not even that. I clean up
after other sailors eat.
Two years, they never even
let me fire a weapon.
Well, let's hope
you never have to.
Yes, ma'am.
- You take care, Petty Officer Miller.
- You too, ma'am.
You know, he taught me to fly.
I always knew that no matter
what trouble I got into,
I'd never be in it alone.
He'd be there with me.
He was always pushing me
to be better and faster.
He told me you were a great flier.
It was the same night he told me
he'd volunteered to go to England.
Volunteered?
He told me he'd been assigned.
He was always
trying to protect me.
But you know what? I look at myself
in the mirror in this uniform,
and I still don't know who I am.
I look like a hero,
but I don't feel like it.
Rafe ...
He always looked the part,
didn't he?
He couldn't wait to be one.
To Rafe McCawley.
The best pilot
and the best friend I ever knew,
or ever will know.
To Rafe.
Look at this. The Japanese are flooding
the Pacific with radio traffic.
Everywhere from the Panama Canal
to southeast Asia.
- There's no logical pattern, Captain.
- No. There's always logic.
They know we read their mail.
They're trying to make us think
their fleet is moving south.
I'm not buying it.
Something's up.
Otherwise, why would they take
the trouble to bullshit me?
Evelyn, I signed for
these letters for you today.
They're from England.
- They're from Rafe.
- I'm sorry, Ev.
You know how long
it takes mail to get here.
- Hurry up.
- Show time, boys. Come on.
America still awaits Japan's
response to peace proposals.
Ambassador Nomura
arrives in Washington ...
in what could hopefully guarantee
continued peace in the Pacific.
On the British front,
Churchill declares:
"Give us the tools,
and we will finish the job."
The RAF has fought bravely ...
against Hitler's ambition
to rule the skies over the Channel.
Victory does not come
without sacrifice.
Evelyn.
Danny.
Some comedy, huh?
It's been a while.
- I've been logging a lot of flight hours.
- I've kinda been avoiding you, too.
Yeah.
- Look ...
- Do you ...?
- Do you want to?
- Sure, yeah.
I remember one time
when I was, like, seven years old.
I was always building
gadgets and things.
He wanted me to build him some wings
so he could fly like his daddy.
I told him you can't fly
without some kind of engine.
But he wouldn't listen.
"Danny, never mind that,
just build 'em anyway."
So I did.
And I'm up there strapping these
big ol' wings on his back ...
that we made from paper and glue and
these massive silk bloomers that we stole.
He looked so stupid, and I told him:
"You can't jump off the barn
in these."
And bam!
He busted his leg on a backhoe.
- God, I miss him.
- Yeah.
But don't you think that Rafe
wasn't back up there next day,
cast and everything, telling me to
make some adjustments on those wings.
Check this out.
Crossroads of the Pacific.
Tahiti, 1,700 miles.
All right.
Say, Betty,
wou ...
- No, Betty. Get up.
- What's going on, Red?
- Stand up, please.
- What do you mean?
Just stand up.
Stand ...
- Betty ...
- Red, come on.
We got a dinner reservation.
Can I get a minute?
What's the matter, you sick?
Can a guy propose?
Am I talking too much?
Sometimes I do that, I'm sorry.
Hold up.
Look at this.
Hello.
- OK, let's get out of here.
- OK.
I guess I should go.
Don't let it be three months
before I see you again.
- I had a good time.
- Yeah, me too.
- Do you want me to walk you home?
- No, I'll be fine.
No. Of course.
- Good night.
I was just wondering if maybe
I could come by sometime,
get a cup of coffee
or a piece of pie?
What am I doing?
OK.
- You were asleep. I'm sorry.
- Danny?
- Is something wrong?
- No. Nothing's wrong. No problem. Hi.
It's just Danny.
I just ... You forgot this.
Thanks.
It was good of you to take the
trouble to drop it over now.
Well, I thought you might need it.
You know,
maybe tomorrow morning.
- If ... Not that you wear this to work, but ...
- No. It's a hankie.
Right, right. Yeah.
Listen, I was thinking maybe
I could come by sometime.
If I gave you a call,
could I come by sometime?
Once, maybe, if you're not busy?
Yeah, maybe.
- Maybe?
- Maybe.
OK. All right.
- Thanks. Good night.
- Goodbye. Good night.
You are such an idiot.
Did you have fun last night?
- It wasn't how it looked.
- And if it was, it'd be all right.
It's been months.
It's time to move on.
- I am moving on.
- Ev, don't lie.
All I know is, I hear you crying
when you think I'm asleep.
When my dad left, I was too
much for my mom to handle,
so she sent me to
live with my aunt.
I thought my life was over, but you
don't know where it's all gonna lead.
If I hadn't run away and lied about
my age and enlisted in the navy,
I wouldn't have met Red, and,
now he's my fiancé.
God, I can't get
used to that word.
- It's only been 12 hours.
- Betty.
Little Betty beat
us all to the post.
And this is ward three.
As you can see, no patients.
Welcome to Hawaii.
I'll show you the bar.
Sandra, new recruits to torture.
- Come on. Excuse me, ladies?
- Hi.
We're gonna wait two years until
I'm 19, and Red can buy me a ring.
Rafe sent his best friend to tell you
so you would be OK, so you can move on.
You gotta go on living, Ev.
Red.
Sorry.
Bye, Rafe.
The Japanese fleet is missing.
They're operating
under radio silence.
This footage was shot
four days ago on October 28th.
We're sending scout planes in
wider vectors all over the Pacific,
but they get nothing.
They could be anywhere in here.
I don't understand how two whole
carrier divisions can just disappear.
Clear.
We're all over the page. We got
one wall-eyed and one pigeon-toed.
- Anthony, tap in number six.
- All right.
- Gooz, tap in number three.
Hey. We got a visitor.
That ain't no
navy-issue uniform, right?
- Danny, it's Evelyn.
- Jesus.
- You all right?
- Yeah. Yeah.
- No. I think I'm fallin' for her.
- Wow. You know, I saw this coming.
I didn't want this to happen.
It just kind of did. Can't help it.
She's gotta be with somebody.
It might as well be you.
You telling me if you were dead and you
saw your best buddy doin' your girl,
you wouldn't come back and beat
the living crap outta him?
- Back off.
- I'd be back so fast.
Danny's being a better friend
taking care of her himself.
I got a girlfriend.
- That's great.
- Come on, fellas. Let's split.
Danny, whatever happens now
is just about you and her.
You gotta try
and forget about Rafe.
Be careful, all right?
Ladies cloud the mind.
- Thanks, Gooz.
- You're welcome.
Hey, Danny.
Where's everybody going?
Just bein' discreet.
Does it seem like everybody's
acting strange?
No. No.
Right.
Well, maybe a little. Yeah.
People in this outfit have way
too much time on their hands.
I hope they don't think there's
something goin' on between us.
No. I mean, no.
That would be embarrassing, right?
Forgot my wrenches.
- That would definitely be embarrassing.
- Yeah.
- Forgot my wrenches.
- Hey.
- He really doesn't have to leave.
- No.
I'm just goin'
out with the girls, so,
- I guess I'll see you later.
- Yeah.
- All right.
- Yeah, all right. I'll see you around.
Shit.
Evelyn.
Have you ever seen
Pearl Harbor at sunset?
- Of course.
- Well, from the air?
I could get kicked out of
the military for this.
- Really?
- Yeah. Stay down.
The Hawaiians
called this harbor Wai Momi.
- It means "water of pearls".
- It's so beautiful.
My dad took me up a couple of times.
Just don't do what he did.
- What do you call it when you flip over?
- A barrel roll?
- Yeah.
- I won't.
- God.
- What do you think?
I like that.
That plane was supposed to be
back here an hour ago.
Hide in the parachute hangar.
My heart is pounding.
Danny, last night ...
No, that's terrible.
Danny, we need to talk about this.
Sir. Evelyn.
- Danny.
- Hey. Hi.
Hi.
I didn't sleep a wink last night.
I had to see you.
Last night was crazy, I know,
but I'm not sorry. Are you?
I don't know.
Danny, I had a wonderful
time last night.
It's just all too fast.
Listen, Evelyn, I was just down
at the beach this morning ...
and I watched the sunrise, and I knew
that everything was gonna be different.
That this was the start of something
new. In this place, in this moment.
And I don't care what
anybody else says, you know?
How can I not feel this way?
I kinda like you.
You do?
You have your tie on crooked.
Everything's gonna be all right, OK?
Everything's gonna be all right.
Do you have any air tours
going through the valley of Oahu?
You do?
Aloha. This is KGMB in Honolulu on
another beautiful fall day here in paradise.
We have enough information.
We are returning home.
Do you ever wonder if this
war's gonna catch up with us?
Not a whole lot.
Every moment we're not together,
you're up there training for it.
Yeah, well, I'm training
for moments like these,
cos I have no idea how I'm gonna
get this car out of the sand.
Evelyn, can you please come out of the
bathroom? You've been there for an hour.
Evelyn. What are you
trying to do, look like me?
- Are you OK?
- Yeah.
What's the matter?
No, you ...
They call it the vacant sea. None of
the major sea lanes go through it.
You could bury the entire land mass
of Asia there and nobody would know.
From there, they could attack anywhere.
Our last signals intercept indicate that the
Japanese task force is heading south ...
towards the Philippines
or southeast Asia.
But Captain Thurman
of Naval Intelligence here ...
has his own theory
about the missing ships.
Sir, I believe they'll try to hit us
where it'll hurt us the most ― Pearl Harbor.
It's over 4,000 nautical miles
from Japan to Pearl.
That's a long distance
to steam a navy, Captain.
- Your theory is based on what?
- Well, it's what I would do.
That's not exactly
hard evidence, Captain Thurman.
Admiral, if I had hard evidence,
we'd already be at war.
Sir, we can read their diplomatic codes
faster than they can type them.
Captain Thurman's cryptology team is
still trying to crack the naval codes.
The intercepts have missing words
and garbled lines,
so to explain the decrypts,
we have to try to interpret ...
- what we think they're trying to do.
- Interpret? You mean guess.
They use their
informed intuition, sir.
We guess.
It's like playing chess in the dark.
Any rumour, troop movement,
ship movement,
spine-tingle, goose bump,
we pay attention to it.
When I was in the Asiatic Fleet, the locals
used to try to get outside of a problem ...
to try to see the inside.
I see a strike on Pearl. It's the
worst thing that could happen.
A blow to Pearl would devastate the
Pacific Fleet's ability to make war.
So, sir, you would have us
mobilise the entire fleet ...
at the cost of millions of dollars,
based on this spine-tingling
feeling of yours?
No, sir. I understand my job is
to gather and interpret material.
Making difficult decisions
based on incomplete information ...
from my limited decoding ability ...
is your job, sir.
Then break the damn naval code,
Captain, so I can make a better decision.
Aye, sir. We are trying.
I wonder if we shouldn't put
the Pacific Fleet on full alert.
In case the optimism of the Honolulu
Advertiser proves unfounded, gentlemen,
what are General Short and the army
going to do about protecting my ships?
Within a ten-mile radius of your harbour,
we have fighter planes here at Wheeler,
bombers at Hickam,
and a training strip at Haleiwa.
We've recently established a radar station
here that can detect planes 125 miles out.
Which is a month old, Admiral,
and untested.
I've seen these new
radar screens, Major.
There's no way of telling whether they're
ours, theirs, or a flock of damn birds.
I'm intercepting a call from Tokyo
to somewhere close by Pearl.
There's a call from Tokyo.
They say they don't know you.
Hello?
It's a local dentist.
He can see Pearl Harbor from his office.
Are there many sailors around?
The dentist says that the
flat ships are not in port.
They're talking about the weather.
He doesn't seem to know
who he's talking to.
Hello?
That was a strange call.
Admiral, may I speak
to you in private?
Why would a spy use a phone?
They know we tap all international lines.
Our listeners feel
it's probably not code talk.
Someone in Japan
is sneaking around,
asking a local citizen
the location of our carriers.
Well, that makes me feel all warm inside.
Get the FBI on it immediately.
Have we found
the goddamn Japanese fleet yet?
No, Admiral. The bases
are looking all over the Pacific.
So it could be rounding Diamond Head
and we wouldn't know a thing about it.
Get on it.
I'm alive.
This is the first
I could get word out.
I told you I'd come back.
Here, sit down.
Sit down. Come here.
It's OK.
It's all right.
- You're real.
- Yeah.
- I wished for this every day.
- I know. Me too.
Every second. So did I.
I thought you were dead. They said
you were shot down in the sea.
Yeah, I was.
I was in the ocean.
It was so cold.
I missed you.
I got picked up
by a French fishing boat.
I was in occupied France,
and I couldn't get word out.
I'll tell you all about it,
I promise. But I'm fine. I'm OK.
And I'm here now.
Evelyn.
I just wanted to see you.
You're so beautiful.
I love you.
Hey, it's OK. It's OK.
Evelyn. Evelyn, I'm back.
It's OK. I won't leave
you again, I promise.
Rafe, you died.
And so did I.
I know, but I'm ...
It's fine now. I'm back.
We're together.
I mean, we are together,
right?
I don't know where I am.
Rafe.
Stay away.
This is Radio Honolulu,
playing the sweetest music ...
on the sweetest island
in the Pacific.
It's a beautiful December 6th,
with beautiful music ...
Rafe.
Goddammit. There you go.
A real live ace.
An ace is only five.
I shot down six MEs.
And I got two smokers, too.
They don't count them.
Of course, I got shot down
before they could pin me.
You got back
from behind enemy lines, huh?
- What's that combat like?
- Were you scared?
Hey! One at a time.
Well, them Luftwaffe boys
can fly pretty good.
It's not like, you know, training.
They're ...
- Danny.
- They're all about tactics is what it is.
See, the Nazis, they're faster than you are,
so they disappear and get up in the soup ...
and throw like a roll or a hammerhead
and come around on your high side,
shoot you from behind,
like some Americans will.
- Gooz, you're lookin' at a real live ace.
- Let me give you the shirt off my back.
- Aloha. There you go.
- I'll take it from you.
I can see how y'all
been spending your time.
- Rafe, we gotta talk, all right?
- I got nothin' to talk about with you.
Here.
Why don't you have a drink?
I'll make a toast.
To returning from the dead. Wasn't all
I expected, but, well, that's life.
To my best friend
and loyal buddy Danny ...
for keepin' up the war effort
back here at home.
Where I come from, somebody makes a
toast to you and you don't drink,
that's sayin' something.
All right, Rafe.
That's how it's gonna be. To you.
- You guys need to spend some time alone.
- Hell, no, Red. Come on.
No, no, no.
We're celebratin' here.
Me over there fightin',
almost gettin' killed,
my friend Danny back here
lookin' after my interests for me.
Danny was even good enough to look out
for my girl for me while I was gone.
We thought you were dead, Rafe.
And it gutted us both.
- We were tryin' to get on with our lives.
- Life is good, ain't it, Danny?
You're a rotten drunk.
You always have been.
Well, you're a lousy friend.
That's a new development.
You left her to fight
somebody else's war ...
and made damn sure I didn't go with
you, and we thought you were dead.
I almost did die,
you little son of a bitch.
Her face was the last thing
that went through my mind,
- so don't tell me to act like it's all right.
- Yeah, Rafe. Well, I stayed.
I stayed, and you made sure of
that, and some things changed.
- And I hope you can get used to that.
- I have to get used to it?
All right. We'll see
how I can get used to it.
Get used to that, boy.
And that's my left hand, too.
Melee at the Hula-la. Send MPs.
You calling me a lousy friend?
Shit.
Come on, Danny.
Go get 'em.
They're gonna throw us in
the brig. Let's get outta here.
Shit.
Rafe, you're the only family I got.
When you were gone, it was
the loneliest I'd ever been.
The same for her, too.
Boy, now you're really
breakin' my heart.
If you hadn't gone,
none of this would have happened.
So it's my fault, I guess.
Dammit, Rafe.
I just know there's got to be
some way we can work things out ...
so that things can be right
between me and you.
I just don't see how
it could ever be the same.
Revered father,
I go now to fulfil my mission
and my destiny.
I hope it is a destiny ...
that will bring honour
to our family,
and if it requires my life,
I will sacrifice it gladly
to be a good servant of our nation.
We got a large haze.
That's too big to be planes, right?
Is that what you wanna do?
Knight to knight five?
Boom. Wrong move.
Lieutenant, radar's picking up a large
return moving in from the northeast.
Hang on.
Relax. It's a flight of B-17s
coming in from the mainland.
- Nothing to worry about.
- A heck of a lot of B-17s.
Good shot, Hop.
This better be good, Commander.
One of our destroyers reports
having fired and sunk ...
enemy submarine attempting
to enter Pearl Harbor at 06:53.
It's 7:20.
- We had decoder delays.
- Relay this to Washington. Recall the staff.
"Failure ...
peace talks ...
useless."
Thurman here. Tokyo transmitting
to their embassy in Washington:
"Discontinue use of your decoding
machine, and dispose of immediately."
"Special emphasis on destroying important
parts." Do you read that? Acknowledge.
Naval intel intercepted a transmission
to the Japanese embassy in Washington ...
instructing them to break apart
all decoder machines ...
and burn all secret documents.
The Japanese are expecting a war.
Should we?
Warning of possible Japanese
aggressive movement in any direction.
"Broken relationship.
Hostilities imminent." But where?
Did you ever lose a fight, Miller?
- I been lucky so far, Captain.
- From what I hear, it ain't luck.
Ship's proud of you, son.
Why the hell's the navy doing
practice this early on a Sunday?
Go, go, go, go.
I'm with Navy Newsreel, and I can tell you
one thing ― them ain't navy planes.
- All hands, man your battle stations.
- We're being bombed. Get up. Get up.
Jesus Christ.
- Man your battle stations.
- Another dumb drill.
- What the heck was that?
It's a bomb.
Son of a bi ...
Get me the engine room.
My God.
Take cover.
Report battle stations
manned and ready.
Man your battle stations.
This is no shit.
They just sunk the Arizona.
General quarters. General quarters.
All hands, man your battle stations.
This is no damn drill.
They look like Japs.
I didn't even know
the Japs were sore at us.
Danny, you just get me
into a goddamn airplane.
- Holy God.
- This is good footage. Did you see that?
- Holy cow.
- I hope there's still an airfield left.
Hurry up. What in the world?
Look. So many.
Everybody to the hospital.
Why's the navy always buzzin' us?
Shut up, Red.
- Come on.
- Red, it's too early.
The Japs are here.
What the hell?
Let's go. Let's go.
- Get corpsmen to the bridge.
- Aye, Captain.
Repair says third deck
is flooding port side.
Get up, you cowards.
Get up there and fight. Move it.
- I got you, Captain.
- You radio for air cover.
Initiate damage control.
Find my XO. Tell him to assume command.
And you make sure the gunners ...
Everyone's where they need to be,
Captain. You trained us well.
You trained us well.
Captain.
Go, go, go, go.
Let's go. Let's go.
Everybody move.
Get the ammo for that fifty-cal.
Get that fifty-cal.
Come on, man, we gotta get
this thing loaded up.
Let's go. Let's go.
Come on. Let's go. Let's go.
Come on.
- Danny, get me into a damn plane.
- Come on.
Get some ammo up here.
We need some men on these guns.
- The captain says you're in charge, sir.
- We need more ammo. Now.
Send up ammunition
for the five-inch guns.
- Medic.
- All of 'em, now.
Come on.
Come on, you son of a bitch.
I need a doctor.
Somebody help me.
Take a deep breath.
Come on, breathe.
Get to the supply room.
Get everything out.
Plane incoming.
Cut 'em down.
Come on, come on.
Get 'em away from the windows.
- Everybody all right?
- Can you stand? Can you stand?
- Hold your fire.
- Get to the gun. Hurry up.
Get down, Danny.
- Earl.
- This is Walker.
We need those planes
fuelled and loaded right now.
What's going on out there?
What the hell's that noise?
You guys doin' target practice?
I think World War II just hit us.
Go, go, go.
- Billy.
- Run.
- It's gonna blow.
- It's a dud.
It's a dud.
Get down.
- Danny. Danny, are you all right?
- I'm all right. Come on, let's go.
Come on, let's go.
Gooz, come on, man.
We're sinking. We're sinking.
Stay together.
Close the hatches.
- I can't swim.
- Just hang on.
Let's move it. Now.
Joe. Go. Go.
We're gettin' outta here.
Get in the car.
Get in. Get in.
Come on, let's go. Go.
Get out of the way.
Where are we goin'?
We got a small mechanic runway about
ten minutes away. Hasn't been hit yet.
We got Zeros on our six.
Duck.
We're trapped.
Try it. Try the door.
It's sucking me back.
The current's too strong.
They're still shootin' at us.
I don't wanna die.
This is it.
How bad?
It's still not over, sir.
An entire fleet at anchor.
My God, my God.
Barbara, fill every syringe
you can find with morphine.
Fill up the kitchen.
Are you listening to me?
Over there. Over there.
- We got a bad neck wound here.
- Surgery. Move.
Get him to surgery. God.
In here.
He's still bleeding.
Another haemostat.
Haemostat. Give me a haemostat now.
Dammit, hurry.
Gimme another haemostat.
Another suture. Hurry.
God, I'm so sorry.
- Doctor.
- Here.
Am I gonna die?
Nurse.
Don't leave me.
Doctor. Get over here.
My fingers are plugging his artery.
Doctor, what do you need?
Focus, look at me.
What do you need?
- Haemostat.
Here. All right, look at me.
You're gonna be all right.
I need more ammo.
I need more ammo, ladies.
Earl. We good to go?
- Mostly, but ...
- Get down.
- Shit. Get cover.
- Jesus.
- Come on, you guys.
- Earl, get in here.
Hey, Sergeant. We're gonna
need more than a shotgun.
You got any other weapons
and ammo for cover fire?
Inside that ammo locker.
- Come on.
- Let's go. Move it.
- Go. Go.
- Get the guns out.
You said the planes are mostly
ready, but ... But what?
She's down, she's broke,
she's shit. I got four left.
One's good to go,
two need ammo, one needs fuel.
Fall out
and load up in the bunker.
Let's go. Get down.
- Move.
- Get ready to roll this thing.
Get down. Now.
All right. Anthony, Red, you stay
here and man the fifty-calibre.
Gooz, get up to the next bunker
and lay down some cover fire.
Planes.
Should we fire?
Stay down. No, goddammit. Hold your
fire. Stay still. Nobody fire.
Oh, God, oh, God, oh, God.
They don't know we're here.
- Stay down.
- Fire?
No, no, no, goddammit.
Stay down, stay still. Don't fire.
God.
I don't see any ordnance.
I think they're going home.
No. They'll be back. We still
got planes on the ground.
All right. You pilots, listen up.
Get all the speed
you can on the runway,
don't get on the stick
till the very end.
In the air, stay low
between the buildings.
You see any Zero on your tail,
try to wipe him off.
Don't freeze, all right?
Just keep moving.
We're gonna try to separate 'em.
We can take 'em out one by one.
P-40s can't outrun Zeros, so don't try.
We're gonna have to outfly 'em.
We got high-level bombers.
They'll bust this hangar wide open.
Grab the fifties. Let's move.
Move. Move.
Go, go, go.
Zeros.
Take cover. Take cover.
- Get down. Get down.
- Let's go. In the box.
Danny.
Come on.
Come on, buddy.
Leave him, he's dead.
He's dead.
They're kicking our butt. Get to
the airplanes. Let's go. Go, go, go.
Run. Red, Anthony, let's go.
Come on, help me.
Goddamn belts.
Let's go. Come on.
Knock 'em dead.
Quick. Get in.
Here, put this on.
- They're coming around.
- Bring 'em out. Let's go.
Red, get out of here,
goddammit. Go.
Come on, come on. Let's go.
- Joe, get out the way.
- I'm rollin'. I'm rollin'.
Clear. Go.
God. Planes.
Come on, help me.
Hey, Joe. You got three Zeros right
behind you. Three Zeros on your six.
Turn. Turn.
God.
Shit.
What are you doing?
Get going. Get moving.
Start that thing up and get in the air. I'm
no good without a wing man. I need you.
I got you.
Let's do it.
It's real tight, Rafe.
It's real tight.
Rafe, I'm not sure
we have enough runway.
Get your airspeed up
before you leave the dirt.
Don't freeze. Don't freeze.
I don't think
I'm gonna make it over.
Come on. Come on.
We did it. I'm up.
We got Zeros behind us, Rafe.
How many do you see back there?
We got five on our six.
Take it down to the deck, now.
We gotta split 'em up.
You take left, I'll take right.
Earl, get some guns
in that goddamn tower.
OK. Let's go.
Into the truck. Let's go.
Danny, I got three on my six.
Stop. Stop. Let's go.
Let's go. Move it.
Move it, Red.
- Let's go.
- Gimme the fifty.
Let's go. All right.
I've still got
two behind me, Rafe.
Son of a bitch.
Earl, do you hear me?
Get some guns in that tower.
On the tower. Going ten storeys up.
It's a long son of a bitch.
They're all over me.
I can't get them off me.
I've still got three on my tail.
- Don't let them get a handle on you.
- I can't shake 'em.
Goddammit.
Danny, let's play chicken
with these Jap suckers.
All right, I'm with you.
Jesus.
- I'm coming right at you.
- Don't brake till I tell you.
Not yet.
Come on. Come on.
Go left. Now.
We got 'em.
Set up over there.
- Come on, load it.
- We're on the tower.
I got one on my tail.
I'll bring him right by you.
He's comin' around.
Let's get this Jap sucker.
Hold your fire. Here he comes.
You better be cocked and locked
when I come by.
Hold your fire.
Fire.
Good shootin', boys.
Nice shot, Earl.
Let's head over to Battleship Row.
I'm with you.
Let's go do some business.
I'm going after 'em.
I got him.
P-40s.
They're pulling into the clouds. We ain't
gonna let these sons of bitches get home.
How do you like someone
shooting back at you?
I'm on your ass now.
I got one.
Come on.
God, come on.
Come on, stay in there.
I got you, you son of a bitch.
Who taught you how to fly,
Lieutenant?
He did.
I have to amputate here.
I have to amputate.
- You're not gonna die.
- I got you. Hold onto this ...
Sandra, we're running out of morphine.
Find some way to mark 'em,
so we can keep track
of who's got the morphine already.
Tell me about your ship.
What ship are you from?
It's not marking.
Ev, you got a marker?
Use my lipstick.
Put "M" for morphine.
- Evelyn, we need a tourniquet.
- Tourniquet.
Where are the clamps?
There's nothing left.
- Evelyn.
- Here, use this.
Go outside. There's too many
to help. You gotta sort them out.
Only those that can be saved
you bring in. You got that?
- I can't.
- No, please, I need you to do it.
Go. Go.
Don't look at anyone without a mark.
- I told you, stand back.
- Keep 'em outside.
Come on. Let's go.
Wait here.
Don't touch me, you Jap.
Get your hands off me.
Get him into critical.
- Get him off me.
- Critical, front ward.
- How bad am I?
- You're gonna be just fine, sweetheart.
- I don't wanna die.
- You're not gonna die. I've got your hand.
Do you have enough morphine to make
him comfortable? He won't make it.
- Line the critical up.
- Get him morphine. Take him over there.
Burn victims by the tree.
I just found her.
I don't think she's breathing.
No, she's dead. Take her ...
God.
Are you sure, Ev?
Could you check her one more time?
- She's dead. Take her over there.
- But you've gotta be sure.
Go back to work, Sandra.
I don't know what to do.
Over here.
Admiral?
From Washington.
"Attack by Japan
considered imminent."
They're only an hour late.
- How can we help?
- We need blood. Come on.
Remember, son, hold on to your
faith. Remember what Jesus said:
"Today you will be with me
in paradise, so fear not."
Fear not, my son.
You are a man truly blessed.
You will die in a state of grace.
Remember, pain is temporary,
but glory is forever.
Hold on to your faith, my son.
You'll be with God, all the saints,
and all the angels very soon.
I absolve you of your sins ...
in the name of the Father,
the Son, the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
Go with God, my son.
We've got men trapped
everywhere in the harbour.
We need help
from anybody who can move.
There's somebody in here.
Get somebody down here.
They're cutting through.
I hear somebody.
Get some guys up here.
Pull.
Get us out of here.
It's filling up with water.
Get an airline in here.
We need an air hose.
What can we do?
It won't cut any faster.
Cut him out.
Yesterday,
December 7, 1941,
a date which will live in infamy,
the United States of America ...
was suddenly
and deliberately attacked ...
by naval and air forces
of the empire of Japan.
It is obvious that planning the
attack began many weeks ago.
During the intervening time,
the Japanese government ...
has deliberately sought
to deceive the United States ...
by false statements and expressions
of hope for continued peace.
The attack yesterday
on the Hawaiian islands ...
has caused severe damage
to American military forces.
I regret to tell you that over 3,000
American lives have been lost.
No matter how long
it may take us ...
to overcome
this premeditated invasion,
the American people,
in their righteous might,
will win through
to absolute victory.
Because of this unprovoked,
dastardly attack by Japan,
I ask that the Congress
declare a state of war.
Is it true men are still trapped
alive inside the Arizona?
We can hear tapping
from inside the hull.
We're doing all we can to get to them,
but they're 40 feet below water.
We've been trained to think
that we're invincible.
And now our proudest ships
have been destroyed ...
by an enemy we considered inferior.
We're on the ropes, gentlemen.
That's exactly why
we have to strike back now.
We'll attack the Marshall
and Gilbert Islands, sir.
I'm talking about hitting the heart
of Japan the way they have hit us.
Mr. President,
Pearl Harbor caught us unawares
because we didn't face facts.
This isn't a time
for ignoring them again.
We have long-range bombers,
but no place to launch them.
Midway is too far, and Russia won't
allow us to launch a raid from there.
Admiral?
Navy's planes are small. They carry
light loads and have a short range.
We'd have to get them
within a few hundred miles of Japan,
and therefore risk our carriers.
And if we lose them,
we have no shield against invasion.
Does anyone in this room think victory
is possible without facing danger?
We are at war.
Of course there's a risk.
But consider the risk, Mr. President.
If the Japanese invade us right now,
they would penetrate as far as
Chicago before we could stop them.
Gentlemen.
Most of you did not know me
when I had the use of my legs.
I was strong and proud and arrogant.
Now I wonder, every hour of my life,
why God put me into this chair.
But when I see defeat
in the eyes of my countrymen ―
in your eyes, right now ―
I start to think that maybe he brought
me down for times like these,
when we all need to be reminded
who we truly are ―
that we will not give up or give in.
Mr. President, with all respect, sir,
what you're asking can't be done.
- Mr. President.
- Get back, George.
Get back.
Do not tell me ...
it can't be done.
Japan continues its military
conquest throughout the Pacific.
But, back home, millions of
American workers band together ...
bringing factories to life
to avenge Pearl Harbor.
Mr. President, we have an idea
how to bomb the Japanese.
Sir, it's risky, but it's bold.
- Who are you?
- I, sir?
Captain Low, Mr. President.
He's a submariner.
He came up with this idea.
I like sub commanders.
They don't have time
for bullshit, and neither do I.
Fire away, gentlemen.
And where is God in all this?
Our enemies believe that a
divine wind protects them.
But we see our friends
laid out here before us.
Hey, Captain.
Lieutenants Rafe McCawley,
Daniel Walker.
Yes, Major?
You're both going stateside.
Fly out in two hours.
- What for, sir?
- Ask Colonel Doolittle.
Yes, sir.
You're packing.
Orders.
What kind of orders?
The top-secret kind.
The dangerous kind.
- I can't find Danny.
- Is that why you're here?
Looking for Danny?
Probably saying goodbye to his squadron.
We've been assigned to Doolittle.
I wasn't looking for Danny.
I couldn't have you go away
without you understanding something.
Yeah. Well, you don't have
to explain anything to me.
I do, because you're acting
like I didn't love you.
Evelyn, loving you kept me alive.
I should've died over there.
When I was in that water,
I made a deal with God.
I told him I was sorry, that I knew
I'd been a fool for leaving you,
trying to go over there
and be a hero,
and I promised I'd never ask
for anything again ...
if I could just see you
one more time.
And you know what?
It was worth it.
You kept me alive, Evelyn.
You brought me home.
So I'm gonna stand by my end of
the deal. I'm gonna walk away.
And I won't ask you for anything.
But I just want to know why.
Just tell me that, will you,
please? Just tell me why.
Rafe, I'm pregnant.
My God.
I didn't even know until the
day you turned up alive.
And then all this happened.
I haven't told Danny.
I don't want him to know.
All he needs to think about is how
to do this mission and get back alive.
Rafe.
All I ever wanted was for us
to have a home, grow old together,
but life never asked me
what I wanted.
Now, I'm gonna give Danny
my whole heart,
but I don't think I'll ever look at
another sunset without thinking of you.
I'll love you my whole life.
I'll see you on board.
You know, the only thing
that scares me ...
is that you might love him
more than you love me.
I love you, Danny.
And I'll be here waiting
for you when you come back.
Follow me.
Colonel.
- Congratulations on your promotion, sir.
- I heard what you did.
- We can explain that, sir.
- Explain what?
Whatever it is you
heard about us, sir.
You mean the hula shirts
you were flying in?
Or the seven planes
you shot down?
You're both being awarded the
Silver Star, and promoted to captain.
Is that the good news, sir, or ...?
You're just about the only pilots
in the army with combat experience.
I need you for a mission
I've been ordered to put together.
- You know what top-secret is?
- Yes, sir.
It's the kind of mission
where you get medals.
But they send 'em to your relatives.
Top-secret means you train for something
never done before in aviation history,
and you go without knowing
where you're going.
You do it on that
basis or not at all.
I'll go, sir.
I'll go, too, sir.
By the way, the Brits sent
over your personal effects.
- Thank you, sir.
- There's only one more thing.
Leave your goddamn hula shirts
at home.
Dear Rafe.
It's so strange
to be this far from you,
but you should know this.
Every night ...
I've been looking all over for you.
Danny,
this ain't no time
to leave things unsaid.
Now, we gotta face facts here. The fact
is, we just both love the same woman.
She's the first girl
I ever felt this way about, Rafe.
I couldn't help what happened
any more than you could.
This is different, though, Danny.
Evelyn already lost the man she loved
once. I don't want it to happen to her again.
Guys like us got no choice.
This is war. She knows that.
Danny, don't do this.
Don't go on this mission.
You got nothing to prove.
You've been trying to protect me
since we were kids.
Yeah, well, you do tend to
need it from time to time.
The mission I'm asking you to volunteer
for is exceptionally dangerous.
Take a look at
the man beside you.
It's a good bet that in the
next six weeks, you or he ...
will be dead.
Everyone brave enough
to accept this,
step forward.
Your grandmother could take a
B-25 off on a mile-long runway.
Well, I'm gonna train you
to do it in 467 feet.
Because at 468 feet ...
you're dead.
And once you get it up, you'll
learn to fly it like a fighter,
30 feet off the ground.
I want you to say hello to
Lieutenant Jack Richards, Navy Aviation.
He's gonna help us
lighten these fat ladies here.
Dump that ashcan. See that
bomb sight? Get rid of it.
Colonel, he's crazy.
- The lady's fat.
- Listen to him.
She's fat. We want a skinny lady.
Max power.
Get up, get up, get up.
- Damn.
- How the heck?
Damn.
- They just keep rolling past that line.
- Maybe this is a bad idea.
No, they're too heavy.
We gotta get drastic.
This armoured plating's gotta go.
I'm sure, I'm sure.
Lose it like a skirt, son.
Release brakes.
Come on, come on, come on.
- God.
- Put every man on the line, now.
Let's show these boys
how this thing is done.
Come on. Max power.
Well, if he can do it ...
Well, gentlemen, now I can tell
you that we're going to Tokyo.
And we're gonna bomb it.
That comes as a special request
directly from President Roosevelt.
The navy's gonna sneak us about
400 miles off the Japanese coast ...
- and we'll launch from the carrier there.
- Has that ever been done before?
- Taking army bombers off navy carriers?
- No.
- OK.
- Any other questions?
Well, sir, is it even possible to land
a B-25 on an aircraft carrier deck?
That won't matter. As soon as we're
airborne, the carrier heads for Hawaii.
But if the carriers head home,
where do we land?
I have a phrase
I want you to memorise.
It means "I am an American."
In Chinese.
Ain't gonna be any easier. That's 3 feet
shorter than our practice runway.
- Fellas?
- Sir.
Sir.
Secretary of the Navy gave me these.
- What are they?
- Friendship medals the Japanese gave us ...
when they pretended they wanted peace.
- What'll you do with them?
Wire them to the bombs
and give 'em back.
- So, what's going on?
- Well, sir, we only have 16 planes.
So?
When the Japs hit us,
they had more than 300.
I mean, how much difference
can we make?
It's not that we're afraid, sir. But we might
die, and we want to know what it's for.
You know, at Pearl,
they hit us with a sledgehammer.
This raid,
even if we make it through,
it'll only be a pinprick.
But it'll be straight
through their hearts.
Victory belongs to those
that believe in it the most,
and believe in it the longest.
We're gonna believe.
We're gonna make
America believe, too.
Colonel? I need a minute.
- Excuse me, Major Jackson?
- Yes?
Do you remember me?
Sure I do.
I'm sorry.
I've been meaning to thank you.
Well, maybe you can.
When the news starts coming in ...
about those boys in the Doolittle outfit,
I wanna be in the command post.
I'm sorry. I don't know
what you're talking about.
How the hell do you know
about this mission, Lieutenant?
Let's call it an
inadvertent disclosure.
You mean some flyboy you're
dating shot his mouth off.
Actually, it's about two pilots.
I know they're going into great danger.
I just want to be there when the news
comes in to tell us if they've lived or died.
Most officers would have
thrown you in the brig.
Most nurses wouldn't have kept
their fingers plugged in your artery.
I can't promise you anything.
Hey, Red, you think they picked us
to do this cos we're young and dumb?
Come on, Gooz,
we're the tip of the sword.
In honour of our trip to Japan,
I got us some victory cigars.
Victory cigars. There you go. Put that
in your inside pocket, next to your heart.
You know, Jack, we may lose this battle,
but we're gonna win this war.
- You know how I know?
- No.
Them.
Because they're rare.
And at times like these,
you see them ...
stepping forward.
There's nothing stronger than
the heart of a volunteer, Jack.
My friends in the war department
don't want me to lead this raid ...
because they say I'm too valuable.
They don't want me up in the air
flying with the men that I've chosen,
that I've chewed out,
cussed out, pushed to the limit,
and that I've come to respect.
They want me to stand on the flight deck
and wave you off. I don't see it that way.
So I'm going with you.
We take off tomorrow afternoon,
drop our fire, and head for China.
Our mission is to hit military targets,
aircraft and tank factories.
Colonel, you've given
us homing beacons,
but you told us China is overrun
with Japanese troops.
- What if the beacons are switched off?
- Bring her down any way you can,
- and do your best to avoid capture.
- What if we have to bail out over Japan?
Well, in that situation,
I can't tell you what you should do.
What would you do, Colonel?
I wasn't built to be a prisoner,
so I would have my crew bail out,
I'd find the sweetest
military target I could ...
and drive my plane right smack
into the middle of it.
But that's just me.
I'm 45 years old.
I'm an old man.
You guys have your whole lives ahead
of you, so what you do is up to you.
The mission will launch
in a couple of hours.
You'll stay right in here.
Here. Stay here. Don't talk to
them. They won't talk to you.
Pretend to type whatever information
we pass you. That's it.
This is Orphan Annie
from Radio Tokyo.
All the lonely boys in the South Pacific,
watch out ― the enemy will get you.
Maybe she's right.
Japs transmitting.
Captain, radar reports
Japanese patrol boats.
- Range 400 yards.
- How many yards?
400 yards and closing, sir.
Richards, Japs.
400 yards. Let's go.
Admiral Halsey's ordering
the cruisers to open fire.
We gotta sink these Jap boats
before they give away our position.
Go to general quarters.
Go, go, go, go.
My God.
- General quarters.
- This can't be good.
All hands, man your battle stations.
Japs one mile away.
They reported our position.
We're supposed to launch
400 miles away. How far are we?
624 miles.
- Jesus.
- What do you want to do?
624 ...
Colonel, I don't know if the planes can
carry enough fuel to make it to China.
Now. We launch now.
Army pilots. Man your planes.
Man your planes.
They're shooting at something.
- Let's go.
- Come on.
Colonel.
We're too far out to make it.
These planes need more fuel,
but they can't get too heavy.
Listen. Strip everything out of this
plane you don't need, and I mean now.
Start pre-flight. Let's go.
Add ten more cans of
fuel for each plane.
Every plane.
- Let's go. Move.
- Come on, guys, get up there.
Lose those suitcases, now.
- What's your favourite gun?
- What?
You want to get off this deck,
give me one of those guns now.
It's still too heavy.
Go to the kitchen, get some broomsticks.
Cut 'em down, paint 'em black.
We're gonna put a broomstick
where this gun was.
What are you doing to my plane?
Tell your crew to piss before they take
off, or they're not gonna clear the deck.
- We've got broomsticks for tail guns.
- Yeah. Maybe it'll scare 'em.
- You take care of yourself up there.
- Yeah, I will.
Danny, you be careful, you hear me?
I will. I'll see you, Rafe.
Rafe. We're the tip of the sword.
- Turning on one.
- Turning on two.
You ready for this?
- Superchargers low and latched.
- Low and latched.
- We're full into the wind.
- More speed. More speed.
- Are you nervous?
- No. Yes, sir. Yes.
When did you find religion?
When you assigned me
to this mission, sir.
Do me a favour.
- What's that, Colonel?
- Pray for both of us.
- Tell me when.
- Let's go.
Max power.
Please.
Come on. Come on.
Way to go.
Jesus, that was short.
Move 'em up.
All right, full power. Full power.
Here we go.
Pull back.
Come on, here we go, here we go.
We made it.
From Berlin, Rome, and Tokyo,
we have been described ...
as a nation of weaklings
and playboys ...
who hire British or Russian
or Chinese soldiers ...
to do our fighting for us.
Let them repeat that now.
Let them tell that
to General MacArthur and his men.
to the soldiers who today ...
are fighting hard
in the far waters of the Pacific.
Let them tell that to the boys
in the Flying Fortresses.
Let them tell that to the marines.
That's Japan right there, fellas.
Tighten up back there.
Man your guns.
We're in the enemy's backyard.
All right, look alive back there.
I see coastline.
Heads up, boys. Heads up.
- Man your guns back there.
- I'm cocked and locked.
Get ready, suckers.
Approaching targets for bombing
raid. Open bomb bay doors.
Ripley, you got a target in sight?
37 degrees. Target in sight.
All right, boys,
let's knock their clocks off.
- Drop your ordnance.
- Bombs away.
One away.
Two away.
Three away. Four away.
We caught 'em by surprise.
- Dropping ordnance.
- Bombs away. Bombs away.
... factory.
- We got it.
- We hit our targets. Good job, raiders.
Jesus. What ...?
We got flak everywhere.
- Go down there and get Gooz.
- I want everyone to separate.
Clean that up. Try and clean that up.
They're shooting flak at us.
We gotta try and
get out of this shit, Gooz.
- We got a fire. We got a fire.
- Tail's hit.
The electrics.
We got a fire back here.
I gotta short this out.
Get into the clouds, Danny,
right now. Get up ...
Goddammit.
Red, go check it out.
- I'm getting covered.
- I just hope they don't hit a prop.
- I'm hit.
- They're gonna tear this plane apart.
Red, take it up, 800 feet.
I think Theo's dead.
Theo, wake up.
Theo.
Get into the clouds, Danny,
right now. Get up in that soup.
We're gonna pull out of this,
Gooz. Come on.
Thank you, George.
What is it, General?
Colonel Doolittle had to advance his
execution order by 12 hours, Mr. President.
There will be no homing beacons.
The plane carrying them
crashed en route to China.
And our bombers may lack the fuel
to reach the mainland, sir.
So our boys are flying blind
on empty tanks.
God help them.
We're still not getting a signal.
All ocean and no land.
Homing in on nothing.
How many cans of fuel we got left?
These are all empty.
- Is this all you got?
- That's all we got, Red.
Rafe. You'd better pray for land.
Break radio silence.
I'm sorry, gentlemen.
You're all brave souls.
Among the bravest I've ever had
the privilege of flying with.
But we're on our own.
This really was a suicide mission.
Engine one's fluctuating.
We're gonna lose it any minute.
- Rafe, you gotta prime it.
- I'm priming it. How about now?
I see the coast. I see the coast.
Copy that, Rafe.
We're gonna make it.
Danny, follow me. We can make this.
I can see the coast now.
- It's only a few miles out. Follow me.
- We gotta find a soft landing spot.
I'm pushing up on two. Fellas,
it's gonna be a hard landing. Hold on.
I see rice paddies.
We'll bring it in right here.
God, engine one's dead. We're
gonna lose engine two any second.
We can make it in. Easy.
Pull it back, we'll glide in,
go in on fumes.
Japs. We got Jap patrols
all over the place.
Japs. Land somewhere else.
Strap yourselves in.
We're coming in hard.
We're a dead stick.
Get outta the nose.
Hold on, boys. We're going down.
Watch the trees.
God.
Everyone all right?
I'm OK. I'm OK.
Where's Ripley?
He's dead.
Watch for Japs.
- Jap patrols.
- Take cover.
- Who's got extra magazines?
- I got 'em.
We gotta get up into those hills,
find the Chinese.
They got us pinned down.
- Danny.
- Rafe. Rafe, no.
- Rafe. You don't have a chance.
Goddammit. Danny.
Come on.
Gooz? You OK, man?
Danny? Shit. Anthony.
Gooz. Can you hear me?
- Yeah.
- Come on.
- Danny. Easy, easy, easy.
- I've had better landings.
- You saved us back there.
- I got something in my neck.
- Let me pull this out.
- Where's Gooz?
He's fine.
He's right over there.
Rafe.
Grenade.
Danny. Danny.
Danny.
- Hold on.
- Rafe.
Hold on, now. I got you.
You're all right. You're all right.
I'm not gonna make it.
Yes, you are.
Yes, you are. Now look at me.
Rafe, I'm so cold. I'm so cold.
You're all right.
Hey, Rafe?
Can you do me a favour?
What?
Can you have someone else
write my name on the tombstone?
You're not gonna die.
Look at me, listen to me.
You ain't gonna die,
you hear me? Danny.
Danny, you can't die.
You can't die. You know why?
Because you're gonna be a father.
You're gonna be a daddy.
I wasn't supposed to tell you.
You're gonna be a father.
Please.
No. You are.
Danny.
Please, please.
Please.
God.
Please, Danny.
Hold your fire.
They're Chinese.
When the action is over
and we look back,
we understand both more and less.
This much is certain ―
before the Doolittle raid,
America knew nothing but defeat.
After it, there was hope of victory.
Japan realised for the first time that
they could lose, and began to pull back.
America realised that she
would win, and surged forward.
It was a war that changed
America, and the world.
Dorie Miller was the first black
American to be awarded the Navy Cross.
But he would not be the last.
He joined a brotherhood of heroes.
That's for all the raiders.
World War II for us
began at Pearl Harbor,
and 1,177 men still lie entombed
in the battleship Arizona.
America suffered,
but America grew stronger.
It was not inevitable.
The times tried our souls,
and through the trial,
we overcame.
Hey, Danny,
how'd you like to go flying?
Come here.